---
layout: post
title: CFCamp 2015 Day Two
slug: cfcamp-2015-day-two
date: 2015-10-23
categories:
- Events
- ColdFusion
tags:
- Events
- Developers
- ColdFusion
excerpt: "Notes taken during day two at CFCamp 2015 in Munich."
---

## CFCamp 2015

Monkeh Works are at <a href="http://cfcamp.org" target="_blank">CFCamp</a> in Munich and will be posting notes of sessions attended throughout the day.

Thanks to <a href="http://www.bluegras.de" target="_blank">Bluegras.de</a> for organising this great event and for all of the sponsors for, well, sponsoring it.

## Day 2

This is the brain dump from day two of the CFCamp conference and notes taken throughout the sessions attended.

Make of them what you will. May contain spelling mistakes.


---

### How to stop wasting your time and start performing useful code reviews - Maria Khalusova

Code reviews help with:

* growing as a developer
* on-boarding new team members
* keeping track of changes
* building better software
* increasing bus factor
* sharing knowledge
* finding bugs
* code maintenance
* team collaboration

Don't use code reviews as performance reviews

#### Starting of

Key Aspects:

##### The Team

* Communicate clearly
* Listen to concerns
* Cultivate code review culture
  * Share best practices
  * Create a guideline or checklist document
  * Work together to achieve this so everyone feels involved

##### Change Impact

* Who will be doing the code reviews?
  * Depends on the size of your organisation
  * Pick early adopters of the process as you gradually roll out
  * Who will be the reviewers? Only seniors? Everyone?
* What?
  * What project/s will be reviewed? All of them? Only core?
  * What areas?
  * Best to start with the new commits. Don't work back through historical archive
* When
  * Pick suitable time to start
  * Not right before a big release (or public holiday)


##### Process

1. Work on feature / fix
2. Commit the Change
3. Review the change
4. Done?
  * If no, repeat steps 1-3



* Decide on the process. It doesn't have to be fixed to above
* Keep workflow simple. Don't over-complicate the rules. They're easier to break if too complicated
* Iterations are good
* Best practices suggest average of 2 reviewers
* Review often
  * Keeps the practice moving and iterating

##### Tool

* You need a code review tool
* Find the right tool for you:
  * Fits your environment
  * Supports chosen workflow
  * Meets your particular needs
  * Keeps you in the loop without spamming

Git repositories should NEVER have problems finding a tool that works.

##### So..

* Have an open dialog with the team
* Have a good plan
* Find a tool that works


#### Making code reviews useful

**Automate whatever can be automated**

* Tests
* Continuous Integration
* Static code analysis
* Spellchecker

** Code review is NOT a place for coding style wars**

Don't waste time discussing or arguing about spaces / tabs, styles etc.

(nb: use editor config)

##### As code author

* Review your own code
  * Double-check before you commit - can drastically reduce errors
* Commit small changes
  * Makes reviews easier and quicker
  * Helps to avoid merge conflicts
* Document your code and write meaningful commit messages

##### As code reviewer

* Don't delay the review
  * You don't need to jump on it straight away but don't hold back work either
* Don't spend too much time
  * 60-90 minutes is maximum you _SHOULD_ be spending
* * If you cant find a bug (or potential within that time) move on - don't waste time
* Apply your expertise
  * You may have specific skills - use them when reviewing and help others improve

#### Know what to look for

##### General and Business Logic

* Correctness (does it do what it's supposed to)
* Coding errors (variable names etc)
* Business logic and rules
* Check user-facing messages
  * Are they correct and clear?

##### Architecture and Design

* Is the code in the right place?
  * Can it be moved?
  * Over-engineered?
  * Too complex?
  * Will it impact future project plans regarding structure and scope?
* Complexity
* Reusability
* Data Structures

##### Readability and Maintainability

<blockquote>Always code as if the person who ends up maintaining your code is a violent psychopath who knows where you live - John F. Woods (1991), Martin Golding (1994)</blockquote>


* Naming
* Readability
* Test coverage
  * 100% is unrealistic for ANY team
  * Have your key critical areas
* Documentation

##### Performance

Automate these where possible:

* Performance Requirements
* Performance Tests
* Unnecessary network calls
* Potential memory leaks

##### Security

* Review potential problems
* Third-party libraries
* Authentication
* Data encryption
* Proper management of password, encryption keys and other secrets?

Useful resources:

* Common weakness enumeration: cwe.mitre.org
* owasp.org code review guide book: https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Code_review_V2_Table_of_Contents


#### Learn to give feedback

* Make it constructive
* Don't be rude
  * Strong language will not highlight or help the issue or level of severity
* Don't dictate - ask questions and engage in a discussion
* It's OK to disagree and argue
  * Be constructive with your arguments
  * Don't argue just because it's not exactly how you would do it
* Do not teach
  * Learn though code reviews by asking questions and getting answers
  * Don't dictate or impose solutions upon others
* Be sensitive to cultural differences
* Contain your immediate reaction
* Consider suggestions
* Ask followup questions if you don't understand
  * Or clearly explain your reasons

** Praise Good Work**

We need more positive feedback.

---
